As has become clear throughout this book, the learning of a second language is a multifaceted endeavor. In order to fully understand this phenomenon, one must consider what is learned and what is not learned, as well as the contexts in which that learning and nonlearning take place. The latter **includes** the various inﬂuences on the learning process that are the focus of the majority of this book. In chapters 4 and 5, we **explained** how the native language plays an important role in learning. In chapter 6, we **presented** some of the tenets associated with Universal Grammar and showed its centrality in an understanding of SLA. We also noted, however, that it accounts for only a portion of the complex phenomenon of second language acquisition. In chapter 7, we **discussed** the role of language universals on the acquisition of a second language and also discussed the acquisition of phonology as well as the tense/ aspect system. In chapter 8, we discussed psycholinguistic approaches to SLA. In chapter 9, we **considered** the role of social and discoursal context in SLA. In chapter 10, the concepts of input, interaction, and output were presented and we explained how these ideas are relevant to acquisition itself. Chapter 11 **examined** how instruction can (or cannot) affect L2 learning. Chapter 12 **dealt with** nonlinguistic factors involved in SLA, and chapter 13 **focused on** the importance of the lexicon

作文部分的高分是非常稳定的，第一部分是相对简单的，听力因为有上下文所以基本能保证能听懂，此外这个部分最主要的，需要注意，得分点就是**多替换表达**